Utility
Is the business question clear and well-defined?
Is the system addressing a current pain point or bottleneck in the business process? 
Have the long-term benefits and risks of the system been clearly identified and laid out?
Is the system mapped to clearly identified existing KPIs? (e.g. successful leads, prediction accuracy)
Are the expected benefits of the system aligned with the organization Data & AI strategy?
Feasibility
Is the project supported and facilitated by stakeholders and sponsors within the organization?
Do the stakeholders or domain experts involved have the required expertise to support the system's development and/or implementation?
Have any regulatory or compliance-related constrained been identified and tackled?
Are the required resources (data, people, infrastructure)  available for the project?
Is the data required for the project readily available and accessible (in compliance with relevant regulations)?
Measurability
Once deployed, is it clear how the system or its outcomes will be used within the organization?
Can the expected benefits of the system's be clearly defined (e.g. reduced costs, increased efficiency)?
Will it be possible to directly measure the impact of the system either qualitatively or quantitatively?
Does the system directly impact one or several existing KPIs? 
Can the impacted KPIs be monitored and computed internally and routinely ? (instead of relying on global metrics provided by a vendor for example)
Verifiability
Is there a clear plan to document the system, including its data sources and the logic behind its decision-making process?
Will it be possible to verify the system's outcomes against a ground truth or an expected behavior?
Will it be possible for the system be checked or verified independently within the organization by a team with the necessary expertise? 
Is there a plan to enable end-users to easily understand and interpret the results generated by the system?
Does the system's development plan include a dedicated validation phase where the system's performance is rigorously tested on relevant internal data or use cases?


